# Cardiovascular Heart-desease-Prediction:
**Abstract:** Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs) proven to be the major reason for a large number of death in the entire world over the many years and has comes up as the most life-threatening issue, not only in Indian contingent  but in the entire world. So, there is a serious need for the accurate, reliable and adaptable system to predict such diseases in time for the precautionary measure. Machine Learning based algorithms as well as techniques have been applied to datasets for the analysis of large and complicated data. Many researchers, in recent years, were being using many machines learning algorithm to help the health care sector and the professionals in the analysis of heart-related diseases. Heart is one of the major body organs. Machine learning classification approach is one of the useful techniques in this field to predict the upcoming coronary heart disease (CHD) with the help of previously available data. The main objective of this project is to build a binary classifier model, which can predict whether a person will be at a 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease (CHD) on the basis medical history and other relevant information. This article mainly concentrates on the classification approach of machine learning as the data is nominal and continuous type

**Keywords:** Train-test split, Decision tree classifier, Random Forest classifier, Hyper-parameter tuning, confusion matrix, Logistic regression, XGBoost classifier.
